Removed Tools and Components
Previous
Next
JavaScript must be enabled to correctly display this content
Oracle JDK Migration Guide
Removed Tools and Components
5  Removed Tools and Components
The following section lists tools and components that are experimental, obsolete, or
no longer used and have been removed from the JDK.
Tools and Components Removed and
Deprecated in JDK 17
Deprecate the Applet
API for Removal
The Applet API has been deprecated for removal as all
web-browser vendors have either removed support for Java browser
plug-ins or announced plans to do so. See  JEP 398: Deprecate the Applet API for
Removal .
Removed RMI Activation
The Remote Method Invocation (RMI) Activation mechanism has
been removed. However, the rest of RMI is preserved. See  JEP 407: Remove RMI Activation .
Tools and Components Removed and
Deprecated in JDK 16
Removal of
Experimental Features AOT and Graal JIT
The Java Ahead-of-Time compilation experimental tool
jaotc  and Java-based Graal JIT compiler
have been removed. See   Removal of experimental
features AOT and Graal JIT .
Removed Root
Certificates with 1024-bit Keys
The root certificates with weak 1024-bit RSA public keys have
been removed from the  cacerts  keystore. For
details, see  Remove root certificates with
1024-bit keys .
Removal of Legacy
Elliptic Curves
The SunEC provider no longer supports the following elliptic
curves that were deprecated in JDK 14.
secp112r1, secp112r2, secp128r1, secp128r2, secp160k1, secp160r1, secp160r2,
secp192k1, secp192r1, secp224k1, secp224r1, secp256k1, sect1
To continue using any of these curves, find third-party
alternatives. See  Remove the legacy
elliptic curves .
Deprecated Tracing Flags Are Obsolete and Must Be Replaced With
Unified Logging Equivalents
When Unified Logging was added in Java 9, several tracing flags were
deprecated and mapped to their unified logging equivalent. These
flags are now obsolete and you must explicitly replace the use of
these flags with their unified logging equivalent.
Obsolete Tracing Flag
Unified Logging Replacement
-XX:+TraceClassLoading
-Xlog:class+load=info
-XX:+TraceClassUnloading
-Xlog:class+unload=info
-XX:+TraceExceptions
-Xlog:exceptions=info
See   Obsolete the long term deprecated
and aliased Trace flags .
Tools and Components Removed and
Deprecated in JDK 15
Removal of Nashorn JavaScript
Engine
Nashorn JavaScript script engine and APIs, and the  jjs  tool have
been removed in JDK 15. The engine,  APIs, and tool were deprecated
for removal in Java 11. See  JEP 372: Remove the Nashorn
JavaScript Engine .
Removal of RMI Static Stub Compiler (rmic) Tool
The RMI static stub compiler (rmic) tool has been removed. The rmic tool
was deprecated for removal in JDK 13. See  Remove rmic from the set of
supported tools .
Disable and Deprecate Biased Locking
The biased locking is disabled by default and all related command-line
options have been deprecated. See  JEP 374: Disable and Deprecate Biased
Locking .
Deprecate RMI Activation for Removal
The RMI Activation mechanism has been deprecated and may be removed in a
future version of the platform. See  JEP 385: Deprecate RMI Activation for
Removal .
Features and Components Removed in
JDK 14
Remove the Concurrent Mark Sweep
(CMS) Garbage Collector
The CMS garbage collector has been removed. See  JEP 363: Remove the Concurrent Mark Sweep (CMS) Garbage
Collector .
Removal of Pack200 Tools and
API
The Pack200 tools and API were deprecated in JDK 11 and have been removed in JDK
14.
The  pack200  and  unpack200  tools, and
Pack200  in  java.util.jar.Pack200  package have
been removed .
See  JEP
367: Remove the Pack200 Tools and API .
Tools and Components Removed in
JDK 13
Removal of Old
Features from  javadoc  Tool
The following four features have been removed from the  javadoc
tool:
Support for generating API documentation using HTML 4
Support for the old  javadoc  API
Support for generating documentation using HTML frames
Support for the  --no-module-directories  options
For details about removed  javadoc  features, see  JDK-8215608 : Remove old javadoc
features .
See  Removed Features and Options of JDK 13 Release
Notes  for list of removed tools and components.
Tools and Components Removed in
JDK 12
To know more about the tools and components that are removed in JDK 12, see  Removed Features and Options in JDK 12 .
Tools and Components Removed in
JDK 11
Removal of the Deployment
Stack
Java deployment technologies were deprecated in JDK 9 and removed in JDK 11.
Java applet and Web Start functionality, including the Java plug-in, the
Java Applet Viewer, Java Control Panel, and Java Web Start, along with
javaws  tool, have been removed in JDK 11.
See  Remove Java Deployment Technologies .
Removal of Java EE and CORBA Modules
In JDK 11, the Java EE and CORBA modules were removed. These modules were deprecated
for removal in JDK 9.
The removed modules were:
java.xml.ws : Java API for XML Web
Services (JAX-WS), Web Services Metadata for the Java Platform, and SOAP with
Attachments for Java (SAAJ)
java.xml.bind : Java Architecture for
XML Binding (JAXB)
java.xml.ws.annotation : The subset of
the JSR-250 Common Annotations defined by Java SE to support web services
java.corba : CORBA
java.transaction : The subset of the
Java Transaction API defined by Java SE to support CORBA Object Transaction
Services
java.activation : JavaBeans
Activation Framework
java.se.ee : Aggregator module for the
six modules above
jdk.xml.ws : Tools for JAX-WS
jdk.xml.bind : Tools for JAXB
Existing code with references to classes in these APIs will not compile
without changes to the build. Similarly, code on the class path with references to
classes in these APIs will fail with  NoDefClassFoundError  or
ClassNotFoundException  unless changes are made in how the
application is deployed.
See  JEP 320: Remove the
Java EE and CORBA Modules  to get more information about possible
replacements for the modules.
Note: You can download JAXB and JAX-WS
from Maven.
Removal of Tools and Components
Main Tools
appletviewer   See  JDK-8200146 : Remove the appletviewer
launcher .
CORBA Tools
idlj
orbd
servertool
tnamesrv
In addition, the  rmic  (the RMI compiler) no longer
supports the  -idl  or  -iiop  options. See  JDK 11 Release Notes .
Java Web Services Tools
schemagen
wsgen
wsimport
xjc
Java Deployment Tools
javapackager
javaws  See  Removal of JavaFX from JDK .
Monitoring Tools
jmc : In JDK 11, JMC is available as a standalone
package and not bundled in the JDK.
See  Removal of JMC from JDK  and  Java Mission Control .
JVM-MANAGEMENT-MIB.mib
The specification for JVM monitoring and management through SNMP
JVM-MANAGEMENT-MIB.mib  has been removed. See  Removal of JVM-MANAGEMENT-MIB.mib .
SNMP Agent
The  jdk.snmp  module has been removed. See  Removal
of SNMP Agent .
Oracle Desktop Specific Removals
Oracle JDK T2K font rasterizer has been removed.
Lucida Fonts: Oracle JDK no longer ships any fonts and relies
entirely on fonts installed on the operating system. See  Removal of Lucida Fonts from Oracle JDK .
Tools and Components Removed in
JDK 9 and JDK 10
This list includes tools and components that are no longer bundled with the JDK.
Removed Native-Header Generation Tool (javah)
The  javah  tool has been superseded by superior functionality in  javac . It was removed in JDK 10.
Since JDK 8,  javac  provides the ability to write native header files at the time that Java source code is compiled, thereby eliminating the need for a separate tool.
Instead of  javah , use   javac -h
Removed JavaDB
JavaDB, which was a rebranding of Apache Derby, is no longer included in the JDK.
JavaDB was bundled with JDK 7 and JDK 8. It was found in the  db  directory of the JDK installation directory.
You can download and install Apache Derby from  Apache Derby Downloads .
Removed  the JVM TI hprof Agent
The  hprof  agent library has been removed.
The  hprof  agent was written as demonstration code for the  JVM Tool Interface  and wasn’t intended to be a production tool. The useful features of the  hprof  agent have been superseded by better alternatives, including some that are included in the JDK.
For creating heap dumps in the  hprof  format, use a diagnostic command ( jcmd ) or the  jmap  tool:
Diagnostic command:  jcmd  <pid>
GC.heap_dump . See   jcmd  .
jmap:  jmap -dump . See   jmap  .
For CPU profiler capabilities, use the Java Flight Recorder, which is bundled with the JDK.
See  JEP 240: Remove the JVM TI hprof Agent .
Removed the jhat Tool
The  jhat  tool was an  experimental, unsupported heap visualization tool added in JDK 6. Superior heap visualizers and analyzers have been available for many years.
Removed  java-rmi.exe and java-rmi.cgi Launchers
The launchers  java-rmi.exe  from Windows and  java-rmi.cgi  from Linux and Solaris have been removed.
java-rmi.cgi  was in  $JAVA_HOME/bin  on
Linux.
java-rmi.exe  was in  $JAVA_HOME/bin  on Windows.
These launchers were added to the JDK to facilitate use of the RMI CGI proxy mechanism, which was deprecated in JDK 8.
The alternative of using a servlet to proxy RMI over HTTP has been available, and even preferred, for several years. See  Java RMI and Object Serialization.
Removed Support for the IIOP Transport from the JMX RMIConnector
The IIOP transport support from the JMX RMI Connector along with its supporting classes have been removed from the JDK.
In JDK 8, support for the IIOP transport was downgraded from required to optional. This was the first step in a multirelease effort to remove support for the IIOP transport from the JMX Remote API. In JDK 9, support for IIOP was removed completely.
Public API changes include:
The  javax.management.remote.rmi.RMIIIOPServerImpl  class has been deprecated. Upon invocation, all its methods and constructors throw  java.lang.UnsupportedOperationException  with an explanatory message.
Two classes,  org.omg.stub.javax.management.rmi._RMIConnection_Stub , and  org.omg.stub.javax.management.rmi._RMIConnection_Tie , aren’t generated.
Dropped Windows 32–bit Client VM
The Windows 32–bit client VM is no longer available. Only a server VM is offered.
JDK 8 and earlier releases offered both a client JVM and a server JVM for Windows 32-bit systems. JDK 9 and later releases offer only a server JVM, which is tuned to maximize peak operating speed.
Removed Java VisualVM
Java VisualVM is a tool that provides information about code running on a Java Virtual Machine. The  jvisualvm  tool was provided with JDK 6, JDK 7, and JDK 8.
Java VisualVM is no longer bundled with the JDK, but you can get it from the  VisualVM open source project site .
Removed native2ascii Tool
The  native2ascii  tool has been removed from the JDK. Because JDK 9 and later releases support UTF-8 based properties resource bundles, the conversion tool for UTF-8 based properties resource bundles to ISO-8859-1 is no longer needed.
See  UTF-8 Properties Files  in   Java Platform, Standard Edition Internationalization Guide  .