JEP 391: macOS/AArch64 Port          JEP 391: macOS/AArch64 Port    Authors  Anton Kozlov, Vladimir Kempik    Owner  Vladimir Kempik    Type  Feature    Scope  JDK    Status  Closed / Delivered    Release  17    Component  hotspot / runtime    Discussion  aarch64 dash port dash dev at openjdk dot java dot net    Effort  M    Duration  M    Depends   JEP 388: Windows/AArch64 Port     Reviewed by  Andrew Haley, Vladimir Kozlov    Endorsed by  Vladimir Kozlov    Created  2020/08/07 07:08    Updated  2024/07/04 16:43    Issue   8251280      Summary
Port the JDK to macOS/AArch64.
Non-Goals
It is not a goal to implement all optional components (e.g., compiler
intrinsics), even if they are implemented in other AArch64 ports.
It is not a goal to support the write-xor-execute (W^X)
memory-protection policy for targets other than macOS/AArch64.
Motivation
Apple has announced a long-term plan to  transition their line of
Macintosh computers from x64 to AArch64 . We therefore
expect to see broad demand for a macOS/AArch64 port of the JDK.
Although it will be possible to run a macOS/x64 build of the JDK on
AArch64-based systems via macOS's built-in  Rosetta 2
translator, the translation will almost certainly introduce a significant
performance penalty.
Description
An AArch64 port already exists for Linux ( JEP 237 ), and work
is underway on an AArch64 port for Windows ( JEP 388 ).  We
expect to reuse existing AArch64 code from these ports by employing
conditional compilation — as is usual in ports of the JDK — to
accommodate differences in low-level conventions such as the application
binary interface (ABI) and the set of reserved processor registers.
macOS/AArch64 forbids memory segments from being executable and writeable
at the same time, a policy known as   write-xor-execute  (W^X) .
The HotSpot VM routinely creates and modifies executable code, so this
JEP will implement W^X support in HotSpot for macOS/AArch64.
Testing
Testing will include, but not be limited to, compatibility testing with
the TCK, regression testing with jtreg, and validation with applications.
The execution environment will include development platforms available
from Apple as well as consumer hardware, once it becomes available.
Risks and Assumptions
The changes for macOS/AArch64 risk breaking the existing Linux/AArch64,
Windows/AArch64, and macOS/x64 ports. This risk will be reduced via
extensive pre-integration testing.
We expect to be able to implement the new ABI convention with
reasonably small changes in the shared AArch64 code.  We expect the
footprint of the macOS-specific code to be small.
We expect the macOS/AArch64 and Windows/AArch64 ports to be similar in
some ways, allowing some code to be shared across these ports and further
reducing the macOS-specific AArch64 code.
We assume that the new version of macOS will not differ substantially
from past versions, so that the amount of code change required for the
new version will be small.
We expect that supporting the W^X policy will be aided by
operating-system services such as the
pthread_jit_write_protect_np   system call. If not, we
will develop alternative approaches. The first implementation will target
correctness with a possible performance penalty in uncommon cases, such
as deoptimizations.
Dependencies
The macOS/AArch64 port and the Windows/AArch64 port ( JEP 388 )
will likely share some code.  Some parts of this JEP will depend upon the
integration of JEP 388, while other parts can be developed in parallel.
Installing    Contributing    Sponsoring    Developers' Guide    Vulnerabilities    JDK GA/EA Builds      Mailing lists    Wiki
·  IRC    Mastodon    Bluesky      Bylaws  ·  Census    Legal  ·  AI       Workshop        JEP Process      Source code   GitHub    Mercurial     Tools   Git    jtreg harness     Groups   (overview ,
archive )   Adoption    Build    Client Libraries    Compatibility & Specification Review    Compiler    Conformance    Core Libraries    Governing Board    HotSpot    IDE Tooling & Support    Internationalization    Members    Networking    Porters    Quality    Security    Serviceability    Vulnerability    Web     Projects  ( overview ,
archive )   Amber    Babylon    Brisbane    CRaC    Code Tools    Coin    Common VM Interface    Detroit    Developers' Guide    Duke    IcedTea    JDK 8 Updates    JDK 9    JDK
(…,
26 ,
27 ,
28 )   JDK Updates    JMC    Jigsaw    Lanai    Leyden    Lilliput    Loom    Memory Model Update    Multi-Language VM    Nashorn    New I/O    OpenJFX    Panama    Port: AArch32    Port: AArch64    Port: BSD    Port: Haiku    Port: MIPS    Port: Mobile    Port: PowerPC/AIX    Port: RISC-V    Port: s390x    SCTP    Shenandoah    Skara    Sumatra    Tsan    Valhalla    Wakefield    Zero    ZGC
© 2026 Oracle Corporation and/or its affiliates
Terms of Use
·
License:  GPLv2
·  Privacy
·  Trademarks