Security Updates
Previous
Next
JavaScript must be enabled to correctly display this content
Oracle JDK Migration Guide
Security Updates
3  Security Updates
This section provides details on the security updates in JDK releases.
Security Updates in JDK 17
The following are the notable security updates in JDK 17:
Support
for specifying a signer in keytool -genkeypair
command
SunJCE
provider now supports KW and KWP modes with AES
cipher
Configurable extensions with system
properties
Removal
of Telia Company's Sonera Class2 CA Certificate
See  Release
Notes  for additional information on security-related
changes.
Security Updates in JDK 16
The following are the notable security updates in JDK 16:
Signed
JAR support for RSASSA-PSS and EdDSA
SUN,
SunRsaSign, and SunEC providers support SHA-3-based
signature algorithms
The
SunPKCS11 provider now supports SHA-3-related
algorithms
TLS support for the EdDSA signature
algorithm
See  Release
Notes  for additional information on security-related
changes.
Security Updates in JDK 15
The following are the noteable security updates in JDK 15:
A new signature scheme Edwards-Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (EdDSA) is
implemented, which is a modern elliptic curve signature scheme that has several
advantages over the existing signature schemes in the JDK. This new signature
scheme does not replace ECDSA. See  JEP 339: Edwards-Curve Digital Signature Algorithm
(EdDSA) .
SunJCE
provider now supports SHA-3 based Hmac
algorithms
New
System Properties to Configure the TLS Signature
Schemes
Support
the certificate_authorities extension
See  Release
Notes  for additional information on security related
changes.
Security Updates in JDK 14
The following are the noteable security updates in JDK 14:
Exact
Match Required for Trusted TLS Server
Certificate
New
Checks on Trust Anchor Certificates
See  Release
Notes  for additional information on security related
changes.
Security Updates in JDK 13
The following were removed from JDK 13:
Experimental FIPS 140 compliant mode from SunJSSE
provider
Duplicated RSA services no longer supported by
SunJSSE provider
Removal of Security
Certificates
The following root certificates were removed from the keystore in JDK
13:
T-Systems Deutsche Telekom Root CA 2
certificate
Two
DocuSign Root CA certificates
Two
Comodo Root CA certificates
Security Updates in JDK 11 and JDK
12
The following security updates were
made in JDK 11 and JDK 12:
The JDK 11 release included an implementation of the Transport Layer Security (TLS)
1.3 specification ( RFC
8446 ).
TLS 1.3 is the latest iteration (August 2018) of the Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol and is enabled by default in JDK 11. This version focuses not only on speed improvements, but also updates the overall security of the protocol by emphasizing modern cryptography practices, and disallows outdated or weak crypto algorithms. (For example, RSA key exchange and plain DSA signatures are no longer allowed.)
Several features were added to the TLS 1.3 protocol to improve backwards compatibility, but there are several issues of which you need to be aware of. For details, see  JEP 332 .
Removal of Security Certificates
The following root certificate was removed from the keystore in JDK 12:
Removal of GTE CyberTrust Global Root
The following root certificates were removed from the truststore in JDK 11:
Several Symantec Root
CAs
Baltimore Cybertrust Code Signing
CA
SECOM Root Certificate
AOL and Swisscom root
certificates
Products that use certificates that have been removed may no longer work. If these
certificates are required, then you must configure
and populate the cacerts with the missing certs.
To add certs to the truststore, see  keytool  in   Java Development Kit Tool Specifications   guide.
Security Updates in JDK 9 and JDK
10
Some security-related defaults have changed, starting from JDK 9.
JCE Jurisdiction Policy File Default is Unlimited
If your application previously required the Java Cryptography Extension (JCE) Unlimited Strength Jurisdiction Policy Files, then you no longer need to download or install them. They are included in the JDK and are activated by default.
If your country or usage requires a more restrictive policy, the limited Java cryptographic policy files are still available.
If you have requirements that are not met by either of the policy files provided by default, then you can customize these policy files to meet your needs.
See the  crypto.policy  Security property in the  <java-home>/conf/security/java.security  file, or  Cryptographic Strength Configuration  in the   Java Platform, Standard Edition Security Developer's Guide  .
You are advised to consult your export/import control counsel or attorney to determine the exact requirements.
Create PKCS12 Keystores
We recommend that you use the PKCS12 format for your keystores. This format, which is the default keystore type, is based on the RSA PKCS12 Personal Information Exchange Syntax Standard.
See  Creating a Keystore to Use with JSSE  in   Java Platform, Standard Edition Security Developer's Guide   and  keytool  in   Java Development Kit Tool Specifications  .